Ancestral diet transgenerationally influences offspring in a parent-of-origin and sex-specific manner

Abstract
Parent-of-origin effects, whereby specific phenotypes are differentially inherited paternally or maternally, provide useful clues to better understand transgenerational effect transmission. Ancestral diet influences offspring phenotypes, including body composition and fitness. However, the specific role that mothers and fathers play in the transmission of altered phenotypes to male and female offspring remains unclear. We investigated the influence of the parent-of-origin’s diet on adult progeny phenotypes and reproductive output for three generations in fruit flies (Drosophila melanogaster).  Males and females reared on a control diet were exposed to the control diet or one of two altered (no- or high-) sugar treatment diets for a single generation. Flies from one of the two altered diet treatments were then mated to control flies in a full-factorial design to produce F1 offspring and kept on control media for each following generation. We found parent-of-origin (triglyceride) and non-parent-of-origin (sugar) body composition effects, which were transgenerational and sex-specific. Additionally, we observed a negative correlation between intergenerational maternal reproductive output and triglyceride levels, suggesting that ancestral diet may affect fitness. This work demonstrates that ancestral diet can transmit altered phenotypes in a parent-of-origin and sex-specific manner and highlights that mechanisms regulating such transmission have been greatly overlooked.

Keywords: Parent-of-origin effects, sex-specific, maternal, paternal, Drosophila melanogaster, phenotypic additivity


NOTES:
Statistical analysis can be found in the "Statistical Analysis.rmd" file, which references the data file found on this github page. "Statistical Contrasts.csv" contains the results of all statistic comparisons analyzed for this paper, which were corrected for multiple comparisons experiment-wide using Benjamini Hochberg (1995) false-discovery rate corrections. 
